---
title: "A Multi-Stream Fusion Approach with One-Class Learning for Audio-Visual Deepfake Detection"
collection: publications
category: preprints
# permalink: /publication/2024-02-17-paper-title-number-4
excerpt: '<b>Kyungbok Lee</b>, Neil Zhang, Zhiyao Duan'
date: 2024-08-26
venue: '2024 IEEE 26th International Workshop on Multimedia Signal Processing (MMSP)
'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.14176'
---

This paper addresses the challenge of developing a
robust audio-visual deepfake detection model. In practical use
cases, new generation algorithms are continually emerging, and
these algorithms are not encountered during the development
of detection methods. This calls for the generalization ability of
the method. Additionally, to ensure the credibility of detection
methods, it is beneficial for the model to interpret which cues
from the video indicate it is fake. Motivated by these considerations, we then propose a multi-stream fusion approach with oneclass learning as a representation-level regularization technique.
We study the generalization problem of audio-visual deepfake
detection by creating a new benchmark by extending and resplitting the existing FakeAVCeleb dataset. The benchmark contains four categories of fake videos (Real Audio-Fake Visual, Fake
Audio-Fake Visual, Fake Audio-Real Visual, and Unsynchronized
videos). The experimental results demonstrate that our approach
surpasses the previous models by a large margin. Furthermore,
our proposed framework offers interpretability, indicating which
modality the model identifies as more likely to be fake. The source
code is released at <a href="https://github.com/bok-bok/MSOC">Code</a>
